Feature/block4 Prepare package/image repo (#26)
devonfw/hangar: documentation/ContainerRegistry.asciidoc

:toc: macro
toc::[]
:idprefix:
:idseparator: -

== How to use Docker Hub?
Docker Hub is a container registry/repository which is used to save container/docker images. We will also demonstrate how to pull an image from Docker Hub to your local machine, and then push a version with a tag back to your own repository.

* *Step#1* - You will need a Docker Hub account. If you dont have one, please create one here - https://hub.docker.com/
* *Step#2* - Once you have a Docker Hub account, you can create a repository in just a few clicks at https://hub.docker.com/repositories. First, click "Create Repository"
* *Step#3* - Use the following command and login to Docker Hub account. You will see a message saying "Login Succeeded" after authenticating with Password.
[source,shell]
----
   docker login -u <username>
----
* *Step#4* - Use the following command to pull the docker container image from Docker Hub to local machine.
[source,shell]
----
   docker pull <username>/hello-world
----
* *Step#5* - Use the following command to push an image to private repository.
[source,shell]
----
   docker push <username>/<imagename>
----

> - Example: 
> [source,shell]
> ----
>    docker images
>    docker tag nodejssampleprj <username>/nodejssampleprj:v1.1.1.1
>    docker images
>    docker pull <username>/nodejssampleprj:v1.1.1.1
> ----
> * Going back to our Docker Hub account, we can see the new tag is stored in our private repository [https://hub.docker.com/u/devonfw].
> 
> == Docker Pull/Push Commands
> * Here are some optional commands which we would follow in any of our projects.
> 
> 1. To pull the hello-world container to our local (or server from where we run this command), use *docker pull*.
> 2. After making the necessary code changes, we need to tag the container using *docker tag* command (before pushing it to the regitry).
> 3. After tagging the container, use *docker push* command to push the code changes to the registry.
> 
> [source,shell]
> ----
>    docker pull HOSTNAME/PROJECT-ID/IMAGE
>    docker tag SOURCE_IMAGE HOSTNAME/PROJECT-ID/IMAGE
>    docker push HOSTNAME/PROJECT-ID/IMAGE
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion

=== Example

In a project we will normally execute the following commands:

[source,shell]
----
   docker pull <hostname>/<project-id>/<image>
   docker tag <source-image> <hostname>/<project-id>/<image>
   docker push <hostname>/project-id>/<image>
----

. Pull the desired images to our local repository with *docker pull*.

. After making the necessary changes, tag the image using the *docker tag* command.

. After tagging our image, use *docker push* to push the changes into the Docker Hub.

. Going back to our Docker Hub account, we can see the new tag is stored in our private repository [https://hub.docker.com/u/devonfw].
```

Author: Too many changes in this and need to discuss some of them before changing. Also, would like to see Albert's review comments before making these changes, if any.

Reviewer 2: Review changes look good to me, the suggestion is more concise, clear and correct (you are handling images here, not containers). I would only remove the reference to https://hub.docker.com/u/devonfw and use 'code` instead of *bold* for commands in the explanation.

There's a typo in docker push command (missing `<`).

 Anyway, I need to review the PR in full.

Author: **ok, all these changes are done. Please provide review comments in Review PR form to complete the task. Thank you Joan and Albert.**

== AWS Elastic Container Registry

> * First step, we need to login to our AWS Account using the following command (please replace *<aws_account_id>* and *<region>* as appliable).

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The first step is to login to your AWS account with the following command:
```

Reviewer 2: Can be even more concise:

First, login to your AWS account with the following command:

Author: ok, this is done

[source,shell]
----
   aws ecr get-login-password \
       --region <region> | docker login \
       --username AWS \

>        --password-stdin <aws_account_id>.dkr.ecr.<region>.amazonaws.com

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       --password-stdin <aws-account-id>.dkr.ecr.<region>.amazonaws.com
```

----

> * To create a repository
> 
> The following create-repository example creates a repository inside the specified namespace in the default registry for an account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Create a repository inside the specified namespace in the default registry for an account like in the example below:
```

[source,shell]
----
   aws ecr create-repository \ 
       --repository-name project-a/nginx-web-app \ 

>        --region us-west-2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       --region us-west-1
```

----

> * Output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Output:
```

[source,json]
----
   {
       "repository": { 
           "registryId": "123456789012",
           "repositoryName": "sample-repo",

>            "repositoryArn": "arn:aws:ecr:us-west-2:123456789012:repository/project-a/nginx-web-app"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
           "repositoryArn": "arn:aws:ecr:us-west-1:123456789012:repository/project-a/nginx-web-app"
```

       }
   }
----

> Here are some optional commands which we would follow in any of our Docker projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Pulling and Pushing images

Here are some optional commands which we would follow in any of our Docker projects.
```

> * To pull the hello-world container to our local (or server from where we run this command), use this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Pull the hello-world image:
```

[source,shell]
----

>     docker pull <aws_account_id>.dkr.ecr.<region>.amazonaws.com/hello-world:latest

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    docker pull <aws-account-id>.dkr.ecr.<region>.amazonaws.com/hello-world:latest
```

----

> * After making the necessary code changes, we need to tag the container using this command (before pushing it to the regitry).

Reviewer: ```suggestion

* After making the necessary changes, tag the image using the following command:
```

[source,shell]
----

>     docker tag hello-world:latest <aws_account_id>.dkr.ecr.<region>.amazonaws.com/hello-world:latest

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    docker tag hello-world:latest <aws-account-id>.dkr.ecr.<region>.amazonaws.com/hello-world:latest
```

----

> * After tagging the container, use this command to push the code changes to the registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

* After tagging our image, use this command to push the changes to the repository:
```

[source,shell]
----

>     docker push <aws_account_id>.dkr.ecr.<region>.amazonaws.com/hello-world:latest

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    docker push <aws-account-id>.dkr.ecr.<region>.amazonaws.com/hello-world:latest
```
